README.MD, before:

# *** Forked Version ***

This is a heavily-modified fork of the official repository. I replaced the static API with an instance-based API
that works with .NET's dependency injection framework to manage `HttpClient`. Some methods can still be called
statically.

This version only supports .NET 8 and higher. If you need the static API or support for earlier versions of
.NET / .NET Framework, please see the original repo:

https://github.com/arminreiter/FeedReader

Original readme follows.

-----

# FeedReader

FeedReader is a .net library used for reading and parsing RSS and ATOM feeds. Supports **RSS 0.91, 0.92, 1.0, 2.0 and ATOM**.
Developed because tested existing libraries do not work with different languages, encodings or have other issues. 
Library tested with multiple languages, encodings and feeds.

FeedReader library is available as NuGet package: https://www.nuget.org/packages/CodeHollow.FeedReader/

## Usage
The simplest way to read a feed and show the information is:
```csharp
    var feed = await FeedReader.ReadAsync("https://arminreiter.com/feed");

    Console.WriteLine("Feed Title: " + feed.Title);
    Console.WriteLine("Feed Description: " + feed.Description);
    Console.WriteLine("Feed Image: " + feed.ImageUrl);
    // ...
    foreach(var item in feed.Items)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(item.Title + " - " + item.Link);
    }
```

There are some properties that are only available in e.g. RSS 2.0. If you want to get those properties, the property "SpecificFeed" is the right one:

```csharp
    var feed = await FeedReader.ReadAsync("https://arminreiter.com/feed");

    Console.WriteLine("Feed Title: " + feed.Title);
            
    if(feed.Type == FeedType.Rss_2_0)
    {
        var rss20feed = (Feeds.Rss20Feed)feed.SpecificFeed;
        Console.WriteLine("Generator: " + rss20feed.Generator);
    }
```

If the url to the feed is not known, then you can use FeedReader.GetFeedUrlsFromUrl(url) to parse the url from the html webpage:

```csharp
    string url = "arminreiter.com";
    var urls = FeedReader.GetFeedUrlsFromUrl(url);
            
    string feedUrl;
    if (urls.Count() < 1) // no url - probably the url is already the right feed url
        feedUrl = url;
    else if (urls.Count() == 1)
        feedUrl = urls.First().Url;
    else if (urls.Count() == 2) // if 2 urls, then its usually a feed and a comments feed, so take the first per default
        feedUrl = urls.First().Url;
    else
    {
        // show all urls and let the user select (or take the first or ...)
        // ...
    }

    var readerTask = FeedReader.ReadAsync(feedUrl);
    readerTask.ConfigureAwait(false);

    foreach (var item in readerTask.Result.Items)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(item.Title + " - " + item.Link);
        // ...
    }
```


The code contains a sample console application: https://github.com/codehollow/FeedReader/tree/master/FeedReader.StaticConsoleSample


## Specifications
- RSS 0.91: http://www.rssboard.org/rss-0-9-1-netscape
- RSS 0.92: http://backend.userland.com/rss092, http://www.rssboard.org/rss-0-9-2
- RSS 1.0 : http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/spec
- RSS 2.0 : https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/rss2.html
- ATOM    : https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/atom.html

Commit message:

Removed more unused byte[]-based code. Updated the readme.

README.MD, after:

# *** Forked Version ***

This is a heavily-modified fork of `CodeHollow.FeedReader`. The biggest difference is that it uses .NET's dependency 
injection framework to manage `HttpClient` instead of storing it in a static variable. I also did a fair bit of 
refactoring and used more modern code constructs in some places.

This version only supports .NET 8 and higher. If you don't need .NET's DI capabilities, or you need support for earlier 
versions of .NET / .NET Framework, please use the original package:

https://github.com/arminreiter/FeedReader

Original readme follows.

-----

# FeedReader

FeedReader is a .net library used for reading and parsing RSS and ATOM feeds. Supports **RSS 0.91, 0.92, 1.0, 2.0 and ATOM**.
Developed because tested existing libraries do not work with different languages, encodings or have other issues. 
Library tested with multiple languages, encodings and feeds.

FeedReader library is available as NuGet package: https://www.nuget.org/packages/CodeHollow.FeedReader/

## Usage
The simplest way to read a feed and show the information is:
```csharp
    var feed = await FeedReader.ReadAsync("https://arminreiter.com/feed");

    Console.WriteLine("Feed Title: " + feed.Title);
    Console.WriteLine("Feed Description: " + feed.Description);
    Console.WriteLine("Feed Image: " + feed.ImageUrl);
    // ...
    foreach(var item in feed.Items)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(item.Title + " - " + item.Link);
    }
```

There are some properties that are only available in e.g. RSS 2.0. If you want to get those properties, the property "SpecificFeed" is the right one:

```csharp
    var feed = await FeedReader.ReadAsync("https://arminreiter.com/feed");

    Console.WriteLine("Feed Title: " + feed.Title);
            
    if(feed.Type == FeedType.Rss_2_0)
    {
        var rss20feed = (Feeds.Rss20Feed)feed.SpecificFeed;
        Console.WriteLine("Generator: " + rss20feed.Generator);
    }
```

If the url to the feed is not known, then you can use FeedReader.GetFeedUrlsFromUrl(url) to parse the url from the html webpage:

```csharp
    string url = "arminreiter.com";
    var urls = FeedReader.GetFeedUrlsFromUrl(url);
            
    string feedUrl;
    if (urls.Count() < 1) // no url - probably the url is already the right feed url
        feedUrl = url;
    else if (urls.Count() == 1)
        feedUrl = urls.First().Url;
    else if (urls.Count() == 2) // if 2 urls, then its usually a feed and a comments feed, so take the first per default
        feedUrl = urls.First().Url;
    else
    {
        // show all urls and let the user select (or take the first or ...)
        // ...
    }

    var readerTask = FeedReader.ReadAsync(feedUrl);
    readerTask.ConfigureAwait(false);

    foreach (var item in readerTask.Result.Items)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(item.Title + " - " + item.Link);
        // ...
    }
```


The code contains a sample console application: https://github.com/codehollow/FeedReader/tree/master/FeedReader.StaticConsoleSample


## Specifications
- RSS 0.91: http://www.rssboard.org/rss-0-9-1-netscape
- RSS 0.92: http://backend.userland.com/rss092, http://www.rssboard.org/rss-0-9-2
- RSS 1.0 : http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/spec
- RSS 2.0 : https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/rss2.html
- ATOM    : https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/atom.html
